What is often the occasion of an occasion when it comes to networking is a very important aspects because
when we are using often the occasion we are actually improving who we are.
So we are using over the Haitian whenever we are looking into something or whenever we are encrypting
some data because we need Indian to prove that we are who we say we are and we can't just tell a computer
that will.
I am the administrator and then the computer will ask Are you really the administrator and then we will
just say yes I am.
And they will just say OK fine I believe you.
We need some solid methods that allow us to authenticate and these need to be bulletproof so that the
wrong users can exploit them and exploit the fact that they are not administrators and get access to
something that they are not supposed to.
So when talking about vindication there is a word that is especially important and that is the known
reputation and we will getting closer to that in the coming lectures where we are starting to dive into
encryption certificates and the more technical stuff of how often the case is actually used in networking.
We have touched a little upon it in the previous lectures where we briefly have mentioned it from time
to time where our indication is used and how it plays along and this entailed working.
But when talking about authentication it's important to understand the different often case methods
that we have and we actually have three factors of how often location known at the present time.
So we have something that you have something you are and something you know.
These are three basic ways that you can authenticate to anything.
This does not only applies to networking but in general there are these three areas and whatever else
you can try to imagine you can some how also fit them into these three main boxes.
So something you have that is for example an I.D. card or a physical token that you need to present
to get access to something and something
you are is for example fingerprints and eye scanner are something that is uniquely to you as a person.
And then we have something you know which is our usernames and our passwords.
The one often the case in fact that is most known to all of us.
Is this something you know because password and username has been around for many years and that has
been the main way that we often indicated something.
But we are now starting to see a shift where a lot of services is implementing what is called multi
factor authentication.
And when we are talking about multi fact authentication it basically come down to us using two of these
authentication factors instead of one.
So whenever you're using two of these you are having multi effect of indication.
For example you can have something you know you use name and password that is one and then you need
something else in a multiple factor for example something you have and that is for example your mobile
phone you have your mobile phone.
So the service will also send a code to your phone number and you will not need that code alongside
your password and username or it could be when you are entering a building.
It could be something you know again a password and something you are your fingerprint in order to get
access.
So these are the three factor of indication that we currently have.
So when we are talking about Web services especially the way that web services and Web pages or networks
have evolved in the last decade we are starting to see what is called is a so which is singles sign
on it that is especially used if you have played around with Google Apps once you have a Google account
and you are locked into a Google account you basically have access to the Google obviously suite.
Google Drive you have YouTube access you have access to Google Analytics are and all the different applications
that Google use.
And what is basically happening when you are off indication of indicating to this is that you lock in
once and then the service is handling their information transfer meaning that they will be sure to prove
that you have the right to enter a particular site based on what you have entered once and is actually
a pretty smart way of doing a vindication because then you are not exposing your password several times
and you are not having the risk of someone getting access to that password each time you're logging
in because you only do that once.
The only downside of this is that you have to trust a server that you're doing this with because then
the Security entirely is up to them and if they can't keep your password safe when doing this transfer
between apps then yes you are basically out of Logan and your password can be exposed but these are
the basics of authentication and it is very important that you get familiar with these three of any
case in fact us because these are the ones that we are going to talk about and the common lectures.